# Jetstream 0.6 Release Notes

May 4th, 2018

# Major Notes: 

- The built-in workflow `main.yaml` runs a full alignment workflow on the test project COLO829 (attached here). Tested on dback nodes, and make sure the Python module is loaded.  After extracting the test project,  use `jetstream pipelines main.yaml --file:ref tgenref.yaml` inside the folder. 

- Task dependencies are now regex statements. This makes it much easier to add multiple dependencies. 

- Now using Jinja2 to manage template loading. This affects both cli and api, and introduces a new template search strategy: Templates will be loaded from the following locations (in order by preference):

     - `<project>/templates`

     - `<jetstream_package_dir>/templates`

    Templates in the `<project>/templates` directory can be ignored with the argument `--no-project-templates`. 

- Logging facelift that should make it easier to understand whats happening during a run. The messages still need some work. 

## Command Changes

- `jetstream pipelines` provides access to built in analysis pipelines (ec69a58)

- `jetstream project` now has several options for accessing past run data (d34546f, 
16886a7)

- `jetstream project init` improved (bea204b)

- `jetstream legacy --explode` converts legacy configs into separate documents (
0bcc0df)

- Project config data must be located in `<project>/config/`. This directory is automatically created when using `jetstream project init`


## Workflow templates:

- Workflow template variables can be provided through command line arguments. Type specifications allow simple strings, json/yaml data, and file loading (handled by jetstream.project.load_data_file)

- Started making changes that will allow tasks to have a `null` command. This is useful when adding flow control tasks that do not need a command to be executed. But for now, null commands should still be avoided.

