# Jetstream 1.2 Release Notes

## CLI Changes


- `--out` path is optional when using "jetstream build"
- `--backend` will default to the value of the environment variable: `$JETSTREAM_BACKEND`
- `--variables` is now handled by the kvarg parser. This should not
  make a difference in most cases, but will allow for setting the
  variable file type.
- `--<type>:<key> <value>` template variable arguments MUST include a
  type now. But, there are a lot more choices for types now: 
  str, int, float, bool, json, yaml, file, file:csv, file:json, file:tab, file:table,
  file:tsv, file:yaml
     

- **Pipelines** command:

  `jetstream pipelines`

  Based on the manage.py script from jetstream_pipelines repo. Allows a
  directory to contain several pipelines, set with env variable
  `$JETSTREAM_PIPELINES`. Each subdirectory is considered a pipeline if
  a `pipeline.json` file is added. This file describes how the pipeline
  should be ran:

  ```
    {
      "name": "fastqGeneration",
      "version": "1.0.3",
      "description": "Automated fastq generation, save, and archive.",
      "main": "fastqGeneration.jst",
      "bin": "utilityScripts/"
    }
  ```

  When this pipeline is run, the runner will have the "bin" directory
  added to `$PATH` and set as `$PIPELINE_BIN`. Any constant values,
  located at `$JETSTREAM_PIPELINES/constants.yaml` will be added to the
  run context. And then the runner will start `fastqGeneration.jst`.

## Template Changes


- `before` and `after` directives are assumed to be strings. This speeds
  up the workflow builder. To use regex directives, indicate them with a
  re section under the after directive like this:

  ```
    - name: task2
      cmd: echo
      after:
        re: task.*
  ```

- Dependency directives without a matching task will not raise errors.
  You can build and draw the workflow before executing to ensure it
  that the tasks will run in the correct order.

- `exec` directives can be used to run Python code in the same process as the runner.
  An advanced example of this can be found in `test/test_templates/should_pass/dynamic.jst`

  ```
    - name: save_workflow
      exec: |
        runner.save_workflow()
  ```

## Other Changes


- Improved runner performance. Should hover around < 1% cpu while waiting for tasks
  to complete.

- Larger workflows (>1000s of tasks) build faster

- The workflow saves more reliably on crashes and when a SIGTERM/KeyboardInterrupt
  is received.
