# Jetstream v1.3.0 Release Notes

## Major notes

### New application settings system

Application settings are now handled via configuration files. There is a 
detailed process for loading files and more information can be found with 
the `jetstream settings` command. Previously some settings were taken 
from environment variables, and those must now be set in your user config
file. The path where your user config file should be saved can be found 
with the `jetstream settings` command. Here is an example config file:

```
# My user settings 
# Find the correct location to save this file by running "jetstream settings"
backend: slurm

pipelines:
    home: /path/to/your/pipelines/dir/

constants:
    foo: bar
```

### Refinements to template rendering

The process for loading data used to render templates has undergone some
minor tweaks:

1) Data should be added to a project with the `jetstream init`, adding data
after the project is initialized can be accomplished by editing the config.yaml
in the jetstream directory, or rerunning the init command. Instead of adding
files to the config folder of a project after creating it, just pass them
as command args.

2) Command args for template data must follow an empty `--` argument. This 
clearly distinguishes arguments for the application from template/project data 
arguments. For example:

    ```
    # Old style
    jetstream build template.jst --variables samples.json
    ```

    Must now be:

    ```
    # New style
    jetstream build template.jst -- --variables samples.json
    ```

3) Template data will now be loaded from the following sources in order of
descending priority (any source will override all sources below it in this 
list):

    - Command Arguments (eg. `jetstream run ... -- --str:foo bar --file:csv:samples mysamples.csv`)
    - Project config file (if working in a project)
    - Pipeline manifest `constants: ... ` section (if running a pipeline)
    - User application settings config file `constants: ...` section

4) Template rendering data will NO LONGER be automatically saved into the project 
config file. This allows project config data to override pipeline data reliably.
To debug these features, enable debug logging `-l debug` and look for a line like this:
`templates:162 DEBUG 2019-02-05 16:44:10:Template render context:`. 


### Projects have slimmed down

Projects will only include the `jetstream` directory after initialization. All 
other directories are left to up to the workflow author. Projects are now 
recognized by the presence of a the info file: `jetstream/project.yaml`. Existing 
projects, should still work, but you will need to re-run `jetstream init` before
they are recognized. You can run the `jetstream project` command inside a project
to get info about that project (or make sure it has been intialized correctly)


### Tasks commands can be used on any workflow file

`jetstream project tasks` has moved to `jetstream tasks` and will accept a `-w/--workflow`
argument. This makes it function with any built workflow file. If you are working
inside of a project (or `--project` argument is given), the project workflow file
will be used. 


### New task directive: retry

Retry is a task directive that will prevent a task from failing. The runner will resubmit 
the task for the given number of attempts before failing. This state is loaded each
time the task is loaded, so it will NOT be preserved across multiple runs of the same 
workflow. Here is a made-up workflow that demonstrates the directive:

```
- name: fails_once
  retry: 1
  cmd: |
    if [ ! -f foo.txt ]; then
      echo "File not found!"
      touch foo.txt
      exit 1
    else
      echo "File was found!"
    fi

```


## Other changes

- YAML error messages should be slightly more informative

- The package includes a `__main__.py` file. For developers, this means it can be used with `python -m jetstream`

- Tasks have a dynamic label that can be set by the runner backends. The slurm backend
  uses this feature to add the job id to logging messages regarding that task.

- SlurmBackend will collect some account data for all tasks. This can be configured with 
  settings:backends:slurm:sacct_fields

- Tasks will include an `elapsed_time` state attribute for all runner backends.

- New subcommands added `render` `settings` `tasks`



