# Jetstream v1.6 Release Notes

# Major changes

- A new option `--pipeline` will allow for pointing directly to a pipeline directory
  instead of looking up by name.

- New task directive `reset` is understood by the workflow class. Reset directives can
  be either a string or a sequence of strings. When the task is reset, it will also 
  trigger a reset on any listed task name. Special values `predecessors` will trigger
  a reset for any direct predecessors of the task.

- Pipeline and project paths are now exported as environment variables by the runner. 
  Here are the environment variables:
      - JS_PIPELINE_PATH
      - JS_PIPELINE_NAME
      - JS_PIPELINE_VERSION
      - JS_PROJECT_PATH

- Config file inputs via `-c/--config` and `-C/--config-file` have been improved. There
  are now options for loading plain text as a list of lines (`txt` file type), and also
  for loading tabular data without headers (`csv-nh`, `tsv-nh`). Tabular config data
  can now be used with `-C/--config-file` and will be accessible with the `__config_file__`
  variable inside templates (json/yaml data will still be loaded at the top level).


# Bug Fixes

- Fixed bug with settings not creating correct pipelines variables in new config files.

- Some arguments that worked with `jetstream run` but not `jetstream pipelines` are now
  working for both. Arguments like `-r/--render-only` and `-b/--build-only` will work 
  with pipelines command now.

- SlurmBackend slurm command checks are now silent instead of printing to terminal

- Resolved single-column tsv parsing issue



# Dev notes

- Added unittests for entire pipelines and included a set of example pipelines

- Version info is hardcoded in two places, `setup.py` and `jetstream/__init__.py`. 
  There are guides added to the dev docs for how to handle features and releases.

